# E-Portfolio

Over the course of these five years at St. Thomas, and the nearly 8 years since my first programming expereince, I have learned so much, both about computers and myself. Looking back on my education, it is crazy to think how far I have came. From my freshman year, being frustrated by simple things like using printers or the Microsoft Teams app (which, for the record, I still can't stand), to now having build several PCs, created scripts and processes to make work easier, and exploring uses of APIs for personal projects (J-Term can't come soon enough!). I am excited to continue my education and keep learning throughout the rest of my life. Following undergrad, I will be moving into a data analytics position for the Air Force and I look forward to all that entails, maybe even including a masters program in operations research or data science. I know St. Thomas has set me up well for life and work after college.

I have chosen to highlight three programs here that I think really demonstrate both where my programming career has started, as well as where my programming career is headed. Below are links to the projects and a few words about why they stand out to me.

I thought it was only fitting to include my first ever program in here. This is the link to the code from my high school robotics team, FRC 2501 The Bionic Polars. When I joined the robotics team as a freshman, I knew I loved problem solving, and that both my parents worked with computers, but not much else. Based on the guidance and leadership of the team captains and the mentors, I learned about C and the foundations of programming. It was very cool that my first coding expereince produced very visible results, although I am a little remissed that I skipped the "Hello World" and went straight to a self driving robot. The FIRST robotics community and team 2501 became like a family to me. FIRST not only focused on creating young minds capable of answering the challenges of tomorrow, but also empassived heavily the idea of "co-oper-tition" as they called it. Learning from such a young age to motivate and encourage those around you, even when competing was a great skill to have. Although never explicitly said, I am confident that the founders of FIRST would strongly agree with Saint Thomas Aquanis and his views of the Common Good. [Show me the code!](https://github.com/timmyjlarson/2015_StableRobot)

Another key program is one that I wrote just this fall. For ROTC, we are mandated by the Air Force to ensure each cadet fulfills certain objectives before they can commission into officers in the Air Force. The intent of this is to make sure we all are capable and knowledgable leaders, with all the skills necessary to make the right decission. Previously, this task was done by hand. A cadet or one of our cadre would read through the entire attendance sheet, in some years including over 120 cadets, for 45 events, and cross refrence the objective sheet, 45 events with up to 15 objectives per event. As you can imagine, this was a very cumbersome task, and very repetititve. This semester, one of my roommates was tasked with doing this, so I offered to provide my services to automate this going forward. It was a fun challege to learn the excel API and work with Java in a way that I haven't since I took data structures. Check out this project for some more information on what my code does, and how it is intended to be usable for the future, even after I am gone. [Learn more here!](https://github.com/timmyjlarson/ROTC-Attendance-Tracker/tree/main)

The final project I am including in here is my personal website from CISC 375. It was exciting to make a project that had real deliverables that I could show to my friends and family and have them understand what they were looking at, instead of just seeing lines of code or terminal output. Who knows, maybe I will maintain this site instead of using Facebook or Twitter. [Check it out here!](https://github.com/timmyjlarson/WebDev-Assignment-1)

I hope that this portfolio has served as a good introduction to my programming journey and how I have grown during my time at St. Thomas. I am incredibly proud to be a Tommie and look forward to all the doors that will be opened for me as a result of this school. Roll Toms!
